Let's get into dev containers
with Visual Studio Code now.
So being a program manager at Microsoft,
works on Visual Studio Code.
I'm obviously a little incentivized
to tell you about this, but
I'm also very excited about it.
I think this is one of the coolest
features about Visual Studio Code,
that's why just cannot shut up about it.
So these are called dev containers that
we're gonna get into with regards to
Visual Studio Code.
So first of all,
if you're not a Visual Studio Code user,
I'm just gonna invite you to go ahead,
download it and
try it out with me and you can uninstall
it afterwards if you don't like it.
And the other thing I wanted to call out
is Burke Holland has a free course on
Frontend Masters of how to level
up with Visual Studio Code.
It's really great and totally free so you
can totally share it with your friends and
coworkers.
Okay, so we're gonna be working with
something called the remote containers
extension.
So there are several remote
extensions that have come out of
Visual Studio Code recently.
One of them is WSLs, so you can have your
Visual Studio Code connected to WSL.
One of them is SSH, so
you can say any box that you can SSH into,
you can now connect to Visual Studio Code
too, which is really cool, but
let me get into the remote
containers one So
we're gonna create a second Docker
file for one of these projects,
it doesn't really matter which one so
you can pick any one of these,
the one of the node ones.
So let's go ahead and
go into our projects folder.
We're not gonna do this in Hugo,
we're gonna do it in.
Let's do, which one is this?
Let's do this one, the
more-complicated-node application, okay?
So this one has a Docker file
that does lots of good things.
And this is our production
one that we have, right?
So we're gonna create another
directory here inside of
a more-complicated-node app one.
And again,
you could do this in anyone of them,
doesn't have to be
the more-complicated-node app.
That's just what I'm
gonna do in right now.
I want you to create a new folder in here.
This one is gonna be called .devcontainer,
it's very important that this be
called particularly that, because
Visual Studio Code is looking for dot or
period devcontainer
Inside of .devcontainer,
I want you to put a new file,
which is gonna be a Docker file.
This is where you would define what
your development environment looks.
So let's just say for our sake here, we're
gonna be doing it from node 12-stretch.
And we need a couple
things installed in here.
So we're gonna say,
RUN npm install --global,
eslint and prettier.
Let's say that those are the two tools
that we need for our particular project.
But you can put anything in here,
you can put stack tracing and
all sorts of stuff in here as well.
Any sort of dependency that you'll need.
This is good for now though,
this is everything that we're gonna need
to get our container up and running.
Notice that I'm not
gonna put a CMD in this,
because it's not actually about
running any particular command, right?
It's about setting up an environment.
Okay, so that 's all we need to do for
our Docker file.
Then next to that Docker file,
same directory, in the devcontainer
directory we're gonna create another
file called devcontainer.json.
Now, key here, not .devcontainer.json,
it's called devcontainer.json.
The name here is quite important so please
make it called the devcontainer.json.
And it must be in
the .devcontainer directory.
And here we can give a bunch of
information to Visual Studio Code so
this is specifically for
Visual Studio Code,
of all the things that you want set up for
your project.
So you can give it a name, and
that's the way you can kinda tell
it apart from different windows.
So we're gonna call this one
the Frontend Masters Sample, but
you can call it whatever you want.
We'll close that.
You're gonna point it to
where the Docker file is, so
you can put your Docker
file anywhere you want.
Ours is just happens to be here, I'm gonna
call it Dockerfile cuz that's where it is.
The appPort, This runs on port 3000,
because that's where we made it.
But you could expose all of the various
different ports here that you need to.
So I can put 8080 and blah blah blah,
all that kind of stuff,
but for now we're just gonna do port 3000.
runArgs, so this is how we're
going to run the application.
We're gonna do -u common node to run node.
And then here, we're gonna do settings.
And inside of settings, we can specify
a bunch of different settings for
Visual Studio Code itself.
So let's say that it was very important
that we wanted all of our users to
use a particular theme.
I don't know why you would do that,
but you can, right?
So we're gonna do that,
we're gonna say workbench,
that's nice that lets you kind of
autocomplete all these as well, right?
When you do workbench.colorTheme
right there.
And here it has all of mine listed out,
cuz it knows what they are.
And we're gonna do a theme
from one of our other favorite
Frontend Masters instructors,
Sarah Drasner, called Night Owl.
Okay, and then we're gonna do terminal,
.integrated,
.shell, .linux.
Now why are we gonna do this?
Because once you get into the container,
once you're inside the container,
programming against it, you wanna be able
to specify which shell is the correct one.
So for example on my local computer I
have a set so Zsh is my default shell.
And when I get inside of this
container it needs to be bash.
And so
I'm just gonna be specific about it and
say that bin/bash is
the correct terminal to use.
I'm gonna say postCreateCommand.
This is where we get into
the dependency thing, right?
Because once we're inside the container,
once the container is up and
running, then we wanna run npm install,
right?
So that's what we're gonna do.
After it's finished creating the container
when I run npm install that kind of
sidesteps the issue of not having
the correct dependencies and node modules,
all kind of stuff.
Okay, and then here,
something else very cool you can do is you
can specify which extensions that you
want installed for your users, right?
So someone can come into your project and
let us say your project depends on
everyone using ESLint and
Prettier and unit testing, right?
So you can go and install for
them all the extensions that they
are gonna need to run the project.
So first of all, we made Night Owl
the default that does actually come with
Visual Studio Code by default, so we have
to specify, please install this theme.
So we're gonna put sdras, for
Sarah Drasner, .night-owl.
And then will go and
install the theme for us.
Okay, we'll do dbaeumer.vscode-eslint,
that will install the EsLint extension.
And we'll do it esbernp.prettier-vscode,
and
that will get the Prettier extension
which is a code formatter for JavaScript.
And the EsLint is a Lint term,
in case that was not obvious.
All right, so save that.
Now there's a couple of
things that you can do.
Let's actually do it this way.
Right now I have here in my file explorer.
I have all these different projects open,
I wanna open it so
it's just
the more-complicated-node project.
So for a second, I'm gonna minimize this.
And I'm gonna open a more-complicated-node
project just itself,
right, just that in my Visual Studio Code.
So now if I click Open here.
Notice the first thing it says, hey,
I noticed you have a dev container
configuration file,
do you wanna open this in the container?
So I'm gonna say, yes, I would, thank you.
So down here you can see
that it's opening a remote.
And click details here, and
you can see it's actually running
the Docker build in the background for
my particular dev container.
And so once it's done that,
then it's gonna run it for me and
it's going to attach me
to the running container.
I'm actually gonna be doing development
inside of the container and
everything would be working
inside of the container.
But then it's going to be
using those port exposing so
that I could actually run the code
locally in my local host.
So this will take a second,
there's a bunch of stuff for
you to get everything working and ready.
So if it didn't pop up,
reopen in dev container, or if you wanna
do it after the pop-up goes away,
right now it doesn't show it on mine.
But in the bottom left there's two little
angle brackets next to each other, right?
If you click that, there should be
an option to reopen in container.
If you're using Windows right now and
you're in WSL specifically,
you have to get out of WSL.
So you have to click that same logo and
say reopen in Windows and
then it will ask you.
>> All you did was just close and reopen.
>> Mm-hm, that'll pop up to you and
reopen this container.
So notice here now I'm totally
different theme, right?
And you can see here I'm in
Dev Container Frontend Master Sample.
And here if I click plus,
if I say cat /etc/issue you can see
here I'm inside of Debian, right?
So I'm actually inside of the container
right now doing development, but
it's the same project.
If I say node index.js
it'll run my project.
And if I open this,
You'll see that it's still running.
You can even see that it
opened it on a different port.
I didn't even know it was gonna do that,
but it just kinda does that for you.
It's coming back here to VS Code.
I now have this little
remote explorer over here.
You can see here, Remote Explorer.
It should tell me,
there it's gonna be in here.
So here the forwarded ports,
I can actually see all the ports that it's
forwarding and where they're going to and
I can reconfigure them and
a bunch of stuff like that as well.
Any questions?
>> Here's what I'm trying to think.
So it's all great, you're in the
container, you're doing the development
there, I'm assuming that's where
all your contents are saved, right?
Now you wanna commit and
basically follow your regular workflow.
How does that work?
Just the regular way?
>> So it's a bind bound, right?
So it's actually writing to
the host operating system.
>> So that's what it does?
>> Yep, good question.
Did you get it to work?
>> I'm still working on it.
>> Still work on it?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, with Windows and
WSL it's a little,
working on that we're gonna make
that a better experience but for
right now you have to exit out of WSL and
then reconnect it.
Here at any time though I can say,
clicking on this little thing down here.
I can say Close Remote Connection or
whatever you want.
And actually, just says,
Close Remote Connection.
This will send me back
into normal VS Code land.
And then down here you can always say
reopen folder in container, right?
So you can do all that
stuff up at anytime.
So let's see.
So I wanna show you how to be a little
bit evil to your coworkers, cuz it's fun.
Where is this?
So we're just gonna open this again, and
we're gonna open
the more-complicated-node project.
So right now I'm not gonna
open the same container,
we're gonna do it here in just a second.
So here is a funny April fools joke
to play on your coworkers, and
do not do it to me,
cuz I will be very upset.
So we 're gonna go back over
here to our devcontainer.json.
And instead of being on Night Owl,
we're gonna make this Hot Dog Stand.
So we're gonna make this Hot Dog Stand.
And instead of installing
Night Owl right here,
we're going to put
somekittens.hot-dog-stand.
Now I'm going to warn this is going
to burn your eyeballs as soon as
we reopen this.
So if you don't want your eyeballs burnt,
just don't click open
a container right now.
Okay, so now that we have that,
I'm gonna click this and
say, Reopen in Container, right?
So it's gonna go through and
rebuild the container.
I'm gonna click Rebuild.
So a Hot Dog theme I found out the other
day is actually from Windows 3.1.
There was a theme that you can
put on Windows 3.1 that was just
the worst theme in the entire world.
And someone recreated it for
Visual Studio Code.
And it is just horrifying.
[LAUGH] I can not even look at it for
very long, it gives me a headache.
So if you have a dev container for
your work,
just go change this to Hot Dog container
and you get this just monstrosity.
Okay, I have to stop.
I'm so sorry to all the people
I've harmed out there now.
But pretty cool, and
you can do all sorts of crazy stuff.
You can go on and make the font Times
New Roman by default or something that.
Or Comic Sans,
we should have done Comic Sans.
Anyway, next time.
[LAUGH] All right, so
we'll close remote connection.
That's all I wanted to show
you with Visual Studio Code.
I think this is a truly compelling
workflow for you and your team, right?
You could all just come up
with your dev container and
then as soon as someone just opens
their Visual Studio Code with that, and
there's, ey, we're gonna open
this in a container for you.
It will set everything up for
you, just sit back and wait, and
then once it's done,
everything will just be working for you.
The thing I didn't show you but
was happening is EsLint and
Prettier were automatically
installed as well.
So if I started saving my work,
it would automatically be formatting and
wanting my code for me just out
of the box, which is great too.